# R scripts

* add_arenas : after tracking simultaneously 96 arenas, the files given by the Noldus does not contain 'Arena 1', 'Arena 2', ..., 'Arena 96' for the Arena column but instead contain '1', '2', ... '96'. For the wakefish program to work, it uses 'Arena' as a keyword to detect the Arena column. You can use the add_arenas R script to add 'Arena' from files in the 'without' folder to the 'with' folder.
* align_files : align files from a same experiment generated by the Noldus
* faire_plots : script used to make plots from Noldus files (see FromNoldusToVisualisation_6)
* script_phaseshift_zantiks : script used to make plots from Zantik phaseshift files (see phaseshift_zantiks_example, used phaseshift_3 Zanscript)

# Zanscript (Zantiks)

* set_temperature : Zanscript used to set the temperature before any experiments. Change your desired temperature (here set to 28°C)
* LD_2021_3 : Zanscript used to do do LD cycles (14 hours of light, 10 hours of darkness) with a video at each light transition and an autoreference every hours. Locomotor activity and temperature are recorded every second. The script starts with light on but without recording locomotor activity nor temperature (I like to start the experiment at the end of the afternoon). Change the DELAY parameter to put in seconds the delay before the first light to dark transition.
* phaseshift_3 : Zanscript used to do phase shift experiments : constant darkness for 4 days with a pulse of light between the 2nd and 3rd days between midnight and 2am. Video at each light transition and an autoreference every hours. Locomotor activity and temperature are recorded every second.Change the DELAY parameter to put in seconds the delay before the first light to dark transition. Change the parameters in the LIGHTPULSE action to change the light pulse color
* phaseshift_4 :  Zanscript used to do phase shift experiments : constant darkness for 4 days with a pulse of light between the 2nd and 3rd days between 1am and 3am. Video at each light transition and an autoreference every hours. Locomotor activity and temperature are recorded every second.Change the DELAY parameter to put in seconds the delay before the first light to dark transition. Change the parameters in the LIGHTPULSE action to change the light pulse color
